《Groovy programming:An Introduction for Java Developers》 Dec 6,2006

Lists/Maps
iterator()
closure,an object that represents a code block.
    - can be ref by  variables,parameterized 
    
ch02 numbers and expressions
2.1 numbers
    1.integer ,may be positive,negative,or zero.
        @Integer
    2.float point , a decimal value that includes a decimal fraction.
        @BigDecimal
        must start with a decimal point to avoid ambiguity, 0.25 and not as .25.
2.2 expressions
number:arithmetic,comparison,bitwise,other miscellaneous oprators.
An expression is used to describe some computation and is a mix of operators and operands.

arithmetic op:
    addition +
    subtraction -
    multiplication *
    division /
    modulus operators,denoted by the percent symbol %

tab 2.1 Integer arithmetic
    expression  method call    
    5+3     ,   5.plus(3)
    5-3     ,   5.minus(3)
    5*3     ,   5.multiply(3)
    5/3     ,   5.divide(3)
    5%3     ,   5.mod(3)  ,yields the integer remainder from the division of two int operands.

with the exception of the modulus  operator , ... can also be applied to combinations of integer and floating point value.

取整数除后的商(not模)：intdiv
    13.intdiv(5) 

2.3 operator precedence
    dictate(规定) the order of evaluation in arithmetic expressions.

2.4 assignment
    variable = expression
the effect of "=" is to evaluate the expression to its right and the resulting value is then assigned to the variable on its left.

  @**def** , keyword ,定义变量，首次使用变量最好...
  
  def cnt=0 //define and init... ,variable name are known as identifier.
  cnt=cnt+1 
  //eq: cnt++

  变量名标识符规则：
        case-sensitive, 
        letter+digits, the first must be a letter
        underscore symbol(_) is permitted in an identifier and is considered to be a letter.
        not be a ... keyword

2.5 increment and decrement operators
    i++/++i/i--/--i ,pre/post[increment]
           
    def i=5
    println(i++)//5 ,i=6
    println(++i)//7 ,i=7
    
底层实现：x.next()     

2.6 object references
    age=25 , 
    ... dynamic typing ability, often makes programming easier,
    and it is also the reason why Groovy is both concise and flexible.  
    -- create an Integer object with the value 25 ,and then makes the variable age reference it.
    
the linkage between the variable and the object is known as a **reference**.
**In Groovy , variables are always linked to objects.**
    
    def age=25
    def num=age // two var ref...ing the same obj.


2.7 relational and equality operators(关系/相等)
    **relational,equality,logical** operators

tab 2.5 relational ...,其优先级较低
    5<3 , 5.compareTo(3)<0  -->false
    <=
    >
    >=

tab 2.6 equality ...,(== and != , are binary operators,二元操作符)
    5==3  5.equals(3)    -->false
    !=    !5.equals(3)
    <=>  compareTo()   ,三种结果：1(>后),0,-1(<后)
    8.3. Spaceship operator  (<=>) ,delegates to the compareTo method:
       assert (1 <=> 1) == 0
       assert (1 <=> 2) == -1
       assert (2 <=> 1) == 1
       assert ('a' <=> 'z') == -1
       
Once again these eq operators ultimately become method calls(**xx.equals(yy)**).
     String or Integer class ... equals(...)
