
**3 Strings and regular expression**

3.1 string literals
    A String literal is readily constructed by enclosing the string text in quotations.

variety of ways to denote a String literal：
1. 'ab' or  'a"b"', single...
    @单引号内可嵌套双引号
2. "ab" or "a'b'" ,double...
    @双引号内可嵌套单引号
3. """ abc """ or  ''' abc ''' .triple quotes
    @跨多行
第2,3种 are said to be **interpreted**, ${expression} is evaluated...    
     @ not want to evaluate...  println("age=\${x}") 

3.2 string indexing and slicing
    **index**

    println(greeting[0]) //0起
    println(greeting[-1]) //9 ,最后一个
    println(greeting[1..2]) //12  ,slice with inclusive range
    println(greeting[1..<3])//12  ,... exlusive ...
    println(greeting[4..2]) //432 ,backward slice
    println(greeting[1,3])//13 , selective slicing
     
3.3 basic operations
concatenation,+
duplicate,
find length
minus,remove the first occurrence of a substring
count ,determines the num of occurrence of a substring
contains, determines whether a String contains a given substring .

**Groovy Strings are immutable** ,we create a new String obj by indexing/slicing/concatenating/minus(-).

3.4 string method
String center(Number numberOfChars)
    a new String of length numberofChars,补足空格
String center(Number numberOfChars,String padding)
    ... 
int compareToIgnoreCase(String str)
String concat(String str)
void eachMatch(String regex,Closure clos)
    process each regex group matched substring of the given String.
    The obj passed to the closure is an array of strings,following a successful match.
     
    "hi".eachMatch("."){
        ch->println ch
    }
Boolean endsWith(String sufix)
Boolean equalsIgnoreCase(String str)
String getAt*(...)
    String   getAt(int index)
    ... getAt(IntRange range) // (0..<3)
    ... getAt(Range range) // ([0,2,4])
Int indexof(String str)
StringBuffer leftShift(Object value)
    追加：append multiple objects as String representations to a String.
    
    def msg="hi"
    def result=msg.leftShift("tom")
    println(msg)//hi
    println(result)//hitom
    
    println(msg<<'tom2')//hitom2,简洁法


int length()
Boolean matches(String regex)
String minus(Object value)
    remove...
String next()
    + operator,increments the last character in the given String
String padLeft(Number numberOfCharacters)
String padLeft(Number numberOfCharacters,String padding)
... Right..
... Right(...,...)
String plus(Object value)
String previous()
    - operator,decrements the last character in the given String.
void replaceAll(String regex,Closure clos)

    result=msg.replaceAll('[a-z]'){
        ch->ch.toUpperCase()
    }
    println(result)//HI

String reverse()
int size()
    the length of the String
String[] split(String regex)
String substring(int beginIndex)
String substring(int beginIndex,int endIndex)
Character toCharacter()
Double toDouble()
Integer toInteger()
Long toLong()
List toList()
String toLowerCase()
... toUpperCase()
List tokenize()
    tokenize a String with a space character as delimiter
List tokenize(String token)



3.5 string comparison

    s1 == s2  // equals(...)
    s1 <=> s2 //compareTo(...)    

3.6 regular expression
    find substring in text.
    
    def reg=~'[a-e]' //正则的表达方式 ～'正则表达式'

**=～** ,as a predicate(expression returning a boolean) in **if** and **while** statements.
    
    if ( 'xx' =~ '[a-z]') //右侧为正则表达式
        ....
        
    'cheesecake'=~'cheese' //true    
        
**==～**, **@stricter(严格)**,requires an exact match.
    
    'cheesecake'=~'cheese' //false

In a regular expression,two special **positional characters** are used to denote the beginning and end of a line: **caret(^)** and **dollar sign($)** 
      
    def info="hi,shaoling"
    info =~ '^hi' //true
    info =~ 'ing$'//true
        
reg exp can also include **quantifiers(数量词)**.
+ , **one or more**
* , asterisk , **0 or more**
? , **0 or once**
**{ and }**, is used to match a specific num of instance of the preceding character.


period symbol(. 句号) , can represent any character ,as the wildcard character.
    
    '3x14' =~ '3.14'
    '3.14' =~ '3\\.14' // literally
    
\\ 小心：
    正常字符串中 ，\\ as the escape character and so "\\" represents the single backslash.
    A reg exp to denote a single backslash then becomes "\\\\"!!!
    原因：

reg exp 字符集：
    [a-z][a-mA-M] 
    [^a-z]  求补集,the complement of a character class,represents all characters other than those specified.
    
reg exp **group**： ( )    
        
    "(ab)*" is the reg exp for any num of occurrences of ab
    "(a|b)*" any num of mixed a or b.
reg exp **delimiter(/)** ,permit a pattern,not have to double all the backslash symbols.

    def matcher= "\$abc." =~ \\\$(.*)\\.  
            @正则表达中 \\表示单\
    def matcher= "\$abc." =~ /\$(.*)\./






